RHDEVDOCS-3750+3704 Tekton Hub with OpenShift Pipelines (#43307)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-deploying-api-service-for-tekton-hub.adoc

[discrete]
.Procedure
. Set up route or ingress for the API.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f 04-openshift/40-api-route.yaml -f 04-openshift/40-auth-route.yaml -n tekton-hub
----

. Create an OAuth application with your Git repository hosting service provider.
* For a GitHub OAuth application, set the `Homepage URL` and the `Authorization callback URL` as `<auth-route>`.
* For a GitLab OAuth application, set the `REDIRECT_URI` as `<auth-route>/auth/gitlab/callback`.
* For a BitBucket OAuth application, set the `Callback URL` as `<auth-route>`.

. Edit the `02-api/20-api-secret.yaml` file to update the API secret.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tekton-hub-api
  namespace: openshift-pipelines <1>
type: Opaque
stringData:
  GH_CLIENT_ID: '' <2>
  GH_CLIENT_SECRET: '' <3>
  GHE_URL: '' <4>
  GL_CLIENT_ID: '' <5>
  GL_CLIENT_SECRET: '' <6>
  GLE_URL: '' <7>
  BB_CLIENT_ID: '' <8>
  BB_CLIENT_SECRET: '' <9>
  JWT_SIGNING_KEY: '' <10>
  ACCESS_JWT_EXPIRES_IN: '' <11>
  REFRESH_JWT_EXPIRES_IN: '' <12>
  AUTH_BASE_URL: '' <13>
----
<1> The target namespace mentioned in the `TektonHub` CR; default is `openshift-pipelines`.

> <2> The Client ID from the GitHub OAuth application.
> <3> The Client Secret from the GitHub OAuth application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The client ID from the GitHub OAuth application.
<3> The client secret from the GitHub OAuth application.
```
Unless you're referencing the UI labels in an application (in which case, should they be bold), these should be lower case. Multiple instances.

<4> GitHub Enterprise URL, if you are authenticating using GitHub Enterprise. Do not provide the URL to the catalog as a value for this field.
<5> The Client ID from the GitLab OAuth application.
<6> The Client Secret from the GitLab OAuth application.

> <7> GitLab Enterprise URL, if you are authenticating using GitLab Enterprise. Do not provide the URL to the catalog as a value for this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7>  GitLab Enterprise Edition URL, if you are authenticating using  GitLab Enterprise Edition. Do not provide the URL to the catalog as a value for this field.
```

<8> The Client ID from the BitBucket OAuth application.
<9> The Client Secret from the BitBucket OAuth application.
<10> A long, random string used to sign the JSON Web Token (JWT) created for users.
<11> Add the time limit after which the access token expires. For example, `1m`, where `m` denotes minutes. The supported units of time are seconds (`s`), minutes (`m`), hours (`h`), days (`d`), and weeks (`w`).
<12> Add the time limit after which the refresh token expires. For example, `1m`, where `m` denotes minutes. The supported units of time are seconds (`s`), minutes (`m`), hours (`h`), days (`d`), and weeks (`w`). Ensure that the expiry time set for token refresh is greater than the expiry time set for token access.
<13> Route URL for the OAuth application.
+
[NOTE]
====
Use the fields related to Client ID and Client Secret for any one of the supported Git repository hosting service providers.
====

. Update the API config map.

> .. Update the `config.yaml` file to include at least one user with the following permissions:

Reviewer 2: We should explain why admin should give us their Git provider credentials

Author: @PuneetPunamiya - Can you please comment on this? Although this file is now unavailable, we can use the clarification in other places.

Reviewer 3: The main reason user should give his/her git credentials in config.yaml is because with the `catalog-refresh` scopes user can load all the resources from the catalog in the database

* refresh a catalog
* refresh a config file
* create an agent token. 
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
scopes:
- name: agent:create
  users: <your_GitHub_username> <1>
- name: catalog:refresh
  users: <your_GitHub_username> <2>
- name: config:refresh
  users: <your_GitHub_username> <3>
...
----

> <1> An user with `agent:create` scope can set up a cron job that refreshes the {tekton-hub} database after an interval, if there are any changes in the catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> A user with `agent:create` scope can set up a cron job that refreshes the {tekton-hub} database after an interval, if there are any changes in the catalog.
```
Fix seven instances of "an user" in this PR.

Reviewer: IBM SG: Choose the indefinite article a or an according to how an abbreviation [or word] is spoken. Use a before an
abbreviation that begins with a consonant sound. Use an before an abbreviation with a vowel sound.

Reviewer: If you adopt this suggestion, please update other similar instances in this PR.

<2> An user with `catalog:refresh` scope can refresh the catalog and all resources in the database of the {tekton-hub}.
<3> An user with `config:refresh` scope can get additional scopes. 
+
All users have default scopes `rating:read` and `rating:write`. When an user logs in to {tekton-hub}, they can use appropriate scopes for rate the resources.
.. Commit and push the changes to your fork.
.. Edit the `02-api/21-api-configmap.yaml` and change the value of the `CONFIG_FILE_URL` parameter to point to your fork.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: tekton-hub-api
  labels:
    app: tekton-hub-api
data:
  CONFIG_FILE_URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tektoncd/hub/master/config.yaml <1>
----
<1> Substitute with the URL of your fork.
+
[CAUTION]
====
Before starting the API server, ensure that you have updated the {tekton-hub} configuration.
====

. (Optional) To clone private repositories or repositories from private Git instances, create and mount SSH secrets.
.. Check for existing SSH keys in the `~/.ssh` directory. If unavailable, create the SSH keys and place them in the `~/.ssh` directory.

> .. Create a secret with name `tekton-hub-api-ssh-crds`, which will contain the SSH keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Create a secret named `tekton-hub-api-ssh-crds` that contains the SSH keys.
```
Also avoid avoid future tense in technical writing.

Reviewer: Two instances of "with name" in this PR.
